## 1 

Def: Symmetrization
Let $p: R^N \rightarrow R$ be a polynomial, then $L(p)(x) = \frac{1}{N!}\sum_{\pi \in S_n} p(x\circ \pi)$ is the symmtization of $p$

## 2

Basic Symmetric example: If $p$ is already symetric, then symetrization should do nothing. Let p be given as

$$p (x_1, x_2) = x_1^2 + x_2^2$$

Then,

$S_2 = \{\pi_1, \pi_2\}$ since there are $2!$ unique permutations on tuples of 2 elements. So the symmetrization of $p$ is given by

$$
L(p)= \frac{1}{2!}\sum_{\pi \in S_2} p(x_{\pi (1)}, x_{\pi (2)}) 
= \frac{1}{2} \left[p(x_{\pi_1 (1)}, x_{\pi_1 (2)}) + p(x_{\pi_2 (1)}, x_{\pi_2 (2)})\right]$$

$$= \frac{1}{2} \left[p(y, x) + p(x,y)\right]$$

$$= \frac{1}{2} \left[\left(y^2 + x^2\right) + \left(x^2 + y^2\right)\right]$$

$$= \frac{1}{2} \left[y^2 + x^2 + x^2 + y^2\right]$$
$$= x^2 + y^2$$

Which is exactly equal to $p$

## 3 

Symmetrization of non-symetric. Let $p$ be given by

$$ p (x, y) = x^ 2 + y - 1$$

Then $S_2 = \{\pi_1, \pi_2\}$ and 

$$
L(p)= \frac{1}{2!}\sum_{\pi_k \in S_2} p(\pi_k (x), \pi_k (y)) 
$$

$$
= \frac{1}{2} \left[p\left(\pi_1 (x), \pi_1(y)\right) + p\left(\pi_2 (x), \pi_2(y)\right)\right]
$$

$$
= \frac{1}{2} \left[p\left(y, x\right) + p\left(x, y\right)\right]
$$

$$
= \frac{1}{2} \left[y^2 + x -1 + x^ 2 + y - 1\right]
$$

$$
= \frac{1}{2} \left[y^2 + x^ 2 + x + y - 2\right]
$$

So, 

$$
p^{symm}(x, y)= \frac{1}{2}y^2 + \frac{1}{2}x^ 2 + \frac{1}{2}x + \frac{1}{2}y - 1
$$

Which indeed is symmetric.

## 4: Theorem 1

We can generalize examples 2 and 3 to the following theorems (sect. 4 and 5)

**Theorem: 1** Let $p \in R[x_1, \ldots, x_n]$ be a multiviariate polynomial in $n$ variables. Then if $p$ is symmetric, it shall be invariant under $L(p)$. Formally

$$\forall p \in R[x_1, \ldots, x_n]\colon\quad isSymm(p) \implies p = p^{symm}, p^{symm} = L(p)$$

**Proof:**

Let $p(x_1 \ldots, x_n)$ be an $n$ variate polynomial. Suppose $p$ is symmetric. This means that $\forall \pi_k \in S_n$, we have $p\left(x_{\pi_k(1)}, x_{\pi_k (2)}\ldots, x_{\pi_k (n)}\right) = p(x_1,x_2,\ldots, x_n)$. 

We want to show that $p$ is invariant under $L$. That is $L\left(p(x_1, \ldots, x_n)\right) = p(x_1, \ldots, x_n)$.

Observe,

$$L\left(p(x_1, \ldots, x_n)\right) = \frac{1}{n!}\sum_{\pi_k \in S_n} p(x_{\pi_k (1)},\ldots, x_{\pi_k (n)})
$$

$p$ is symetric, so each term in the sum is exactly to $p$

$$L\left(p(x_1, \ldots, x_n)\right) = \frac{1}{n!}\sum_{\pi_k \in S_n} p(x_1, \ldots, x_n)
$$

The set of permutation maps on $n$ elements is $|S_n| = n!$ and each term of the sum is equal.

$$L\left(p(x_1, \ldots, x_n)\right) = \frac{1}{n!} n!p(x_1, \ldots, x_n)
$$

$$L\left(p(x_1, \ldots, x_n)\right) = p(x_1, \ldots, x_n)$$

This gives the claim. $\square$

## 5: Theorem 2

**Theorem: 2** Let $p \in R[x_1, \ldots, x_n]$ be a multiviariate polynomial in $n$ variables. Then if $p$ is not symmetric, then certaintly it shall be symmetric on application of $L$. Formally, the following is a true statement

$$\forall p \in R[x_1, \ldots, x_n]\colon\quad isSymmetric(L(p))$$

**Proof:**

Let $p \in R[x_1, \ldots, x_n]$. We want to show $p$ under $L$ is symmetric. This means that $\forall \pi_k \in S_n$, we have $L(p)\left(x_{\pi_k(1)}, x_{\pi_k (2)}\ldots, x_{\pi_k (n)}\right) = L(p)(x_1,x_2,\ldots, x_n)$. 

Observe, we can consider two cases. $p$ is either already symmetric or it is not.

Case 1: *$p$ is symmetric*

From theorem 1, we have the claim

Case 2: *$p$ is not symmetric.*

Let $\tau \in S_n$ be particular permutation on the set $[n]$. Then we want to show

<!-- $$eval (f, )\sum_x f(n)$$ -->

$$L(p)\left(x_{\tau(1)}, x_{\tau_k (2)}\ldots, x_{\tau_k (n)}\right) = L(p)(x_1,x_2,\ldots, x_n)$$

Using the definition of $L$

$$L\left(p (x_1\circ \tau, \ldots, x_n\circ \tau)\right) = 
\frac{1}{n!}
\sum_{\pi_k \in S_n}
p(x\circ \tau \circ \pi_k, \ldots, x \circ \tau \circ \pi_k)
% p(x_{\pi_k (1)},\ldots, x_{\pi_k (n)})
$$

The summation is over $S_n$, the set of permutations on the set $[n]$. By assumption, $\tau \in S_n$. So, we can split the summ as follows

$$L\left(p (x_1\circ \tau, \ldots, x_n\circ \tau)\right) = 
\frac{1}{n!}
p(x\circ \tau \circ \tau, \ldots, x \circ \tau \circ \tau)
+
\frac{1}{n!}
\sum_{\pi_k \in (S_n/\tau)}
p(x\circ \tau \circ \pi_k, \ldots, x \circ \tau \circ \pi_k)
$$

Clearly, $\tau \circ \tau = I$

$$L\left(p (x_{\tau (1)}, \ldots, x_{\tau (n)})\right) = 
\frac{1}{n!}
p(x_1,\ldots, x_n)
+
\frac{1}{n!}
\sum_{\pi_k \in S_n}
p(x_{\pi_k (\tau(1))}, \ldots, x_{\pi_k(\tau (n))})
$$

For a fixed term in the summation, we can write $\pi^\prime = \pi_k \circ\tau$. So $\pi^\prime \in S_n$. $S_n$ contains all permtutations on $[n]$, except the identity permutation. Therefre, we can add back the split term to get

$$L\left(p (x_{\tau (1)}, \ldots, x_{\tau (n)})\right) = 
\frac{1}{n!}
\sum_{\pi_k^\prime \in S_n}
p(x_{\pi_k^\prime (\tau(1))}, \ldots, x_{\pi_k^\prime(\tau (n))})
=L(p(x_1, \ldots, x_n))$$

This gives the claim. $\square$